Add CrUX Documentation (#3078)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/crux/api/index.md

---
# Required
layout: 'layouts/doc-post.njk'

# Required
title: CrUX API

# Required
# This appears in the ToC of the project landing page at
# /docs/[project-name]/. It also appears in the <meta description> used in
# Google Search.
description: >

>   Learn how to construct requests to and parse responses from the CrUX API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Learn how to construct requests to and parse responses from the CrUX API.
```

authors:
  - simonhearne

# Optional
# How to a new tag
# https://developer.chrome.com/docs/handbook/how-to/add-a-tag/
tags:
  - performance
---

The Chrome UX Report API gives low-latency access to aggregated Real User Metrics (RUM) from the Chrome User Experience Report.

## Common use case

The Chrome UX Report API allows for the querying of user experience metrics for a specific URI like "Get metrics for the `https://example.com` origin."

## Data model

### Record

A discrete piece of information about a page, or site. A record can have data that is specific for an identifier and for a specific combination of dimensions. A record can contain data for one or more metrics.

### Identifiers

Identifiers specify what records should be looked up. In the Chrome UX Report these identifiers are webpages and websites.

### Origin

When the identifier is an origin all data present for all pages in that origin are aggregated together. For example, say the http://www.example.com origin had pages as laid out by this sitemap:

```text
http://www.example.com
http://www.example.com/foo.html
http://www.example.com/bar.html
```

> This would mean that when querying the Chrome UX Report with the origin set to `http://www.example.com`, data for `http://www.example.com/`, `http://www.example.com/foo.html`, and `http://www.example.com/bar.html` would be returned because those are all pages under that origin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This would mean that when querying the Chrome UX Report with the origin set to `http://www.example.com`, data for `http://www.example.com/`, `http://www.example.com/foo.html`, and `http://www.example.com/bar.html` would be returned, aggregated together, because those are all pages under that origin.
```

### URLs

When the identifier is a url only data for that specific url will be returned. Looking again to the `http://www.example.com` origin sitemap:

```text
http://www.example.com
http://www.example.com/foo.html
http://www.example.com/bar.html
```

If the identifier is set to url with the value of `http://www.example.com/foo.html`, only data for that page will be returned.

### Dimensions

> Dimensions identify a specific group of data that a record is being aggregated against, e.g. a form factor of Mobile indicates that the record contains information about loads that took place on a mobile device. Each dimension will have a certain number of values, and implicitly the lack of specifying that dimension will mean that the dimension is aggregated over all values. For example, specifying no form factor indicates that record contains information about loads that took place on any form factor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dimensions identify a specific group of data that a record is being aggregated against, for example a form factor of Mobile indicates that the record contains information about loads that took place on a mobile device. Each dimension will have a certain number of values, and implicitly the lack of specifying that dimension will mean that the dimension is aggregated over all values. For example, specifying no form factor indicates that record contains information about loads that took place on any form factor.
```

#### Form Factor

> The device class that the end-user used to navigate to the page. This is a general class of device split into `Phone`, `Tablet`, and `Desktop`. The `formFactor`

Reviewer 3: Incomplete sentence

> #### Form Factor
> 
> The device class that the end-user used to navigate to the page. This is a general class of device split into `Phone`, `Tablet`, and `Desktop`. The `formFactor`

Reviewer 2: The final sentence just ends mis sentence. Would also put in caps:

```suggestion
The device class that the end-user used to navigate to the page. This is a general class of device split into `PHONE`, `TABLET`, and `DESKTOP`
```

Also is ECT not another dimension? Should it have a paragraph here?

### Metric

See [metrics](../methodology/#metrics) for more info about the kinds of metrics included in the CrUX dataset.

Metrics are expressed in a histogram, which represents the percent of users that experienced a metric with that value proportionally to all.

> A simple three bin histogram for metric "ExampleMetric" looks like this.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure "ExampleMetric" helps here.

```suggestion
A simple three bin histogram for an example metric might look like this.
```

Author: @rviscomi this was in your original doc, WDYT?

```json
{
  "histogram": [
    {
      "start": 0,
      "end": 1000,
      "density": 0.38179
    },
    {
      "start": 1000,
      "end": 3000,
      "density": 0.49905
    },
    {
      "start": 3000,
      "density": 0.11916
    }
  ],
}
```

> This data indicates that 38.2% of users experience an ExampleMetric value between 0ms and 1,000ms. The units of ExampleMetric are not contained in this histogram, in this case we will assume milliseconds.
> 
> Additionally, 49.9% of users experience an ExampleMetric value between 1,000ms and 3,000ms, and 11.9% of users experience an ExampleMetric value greater than 3,000ms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This data indicates that 38.2% of users experience a value between 0ms and 1,000ms for this metric. The units of the metric are not contained in this histogram, in this case we will assume milliseconds.

Additionally, 49.9% of users experience a value between 1,000ms and 3,000ms, and 11.9% of users experience a value greater than 3,000ms.
```

Metrics will also contain percentiles that can be useful for additional analysis.

```json
{
  "percentiles": {
    "p75": 2063
  },
}
```

These percentiles can show specific metric values at the given percentile for that metric. They are based on the full set of available data and not the final binned data, so they do not necessarily match an interpolated percentile that is based on the final binned histogram.

{% Aside %}
Note: The values for each percentile are synthetically derived, it does not imply that any user actually experienced the value indicated, only that some percentage of users experienced a metric value that was less than the value given.
{% endAside %}

### Metric value types

> | CrUX API Metric Name                     | Data Type                | Metric Units | web.dev Docs                  |

Reviewer: Please use the table markup for all tables https://developer.chrome.com/docs/handbook/components/#tables

| `first_input_delay`                      | int                      | milliseconds | [fid](https://web.dev/fid/)   |
| `experimental_time_to_first_byte`        | int                      | milliseconds | [ttfb](https://web.dev/ttfb/) |
| `experimental_interaction_to_next_paint` | int                      | milliseconds | [inp](https://web.dev/inp/)   |

### BigQuery metric name mapping

| CrUX API Metric Name                       | BigQuery Metric Name                         |
|--------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|
| `first_contentful_paint`                   | `first_contentful_paint`                     |
| `largest_contentful_paint`                 | `largest_contentful_paint`                   |
| `cumulative_layout_shift`                  | `layout_instability.cumulative_layout_shift` |
| `first_input_delay`                        | `first_input.delay`                          |
| `experimental_time_to_first_byte`          | `experimental.time_to_first_byte`            |
| `experimental_interaction_to_next_paint`   | `experimental.interaction_to_next_paint`     |

> ## Example Queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example queries
```

> Queries are submitted as JSON objects via a POST request to `https://chromeuxreport.googleapis.com/v1/records:queryRecord?key=[YOUR_API_KEY]"` with query data as a JSON object in the POST body, e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Queries are submitted as JSON objects via a POST request to `https://chromeuxreport.googleapis.com/v1/records:queryRecord?key=[YOUR_API_KEY]"` with query data as a JSON object in the POST body, for example:
```

```json
{
  "origin": "https://example.com",
  "formFactor": "PHONE",
  "metrics": [
    "largest_contentful_paint",
    "experimental_time_to_first_byte"
  ]
}
```

> Page-level data is available through the API by passing a `url` property in the query, e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Page-level data is available through the API by passing a `url` property in the query:
```

```json
{
  "url": "https://example.com/page",
  "formFactor": "PHONE",
  "metrics": [
    "largest_contentful_paint",
    "experimental_time_to_first_byte"
  ]
}
```

If the `metrics` property is not set then all available metrics will be returned:

- `largest_contentful_paint`
- `cumulative_layout_shift`
- `experimental_interaction_to_next_paint`
- `experimental_time_to_first_byte`
- `first_contentful_paint`
- `first_input_delay`

If no `formFactor` value is provided then the values will be aggregated across all form factors.

See [Using the Chrome UX Report API on web.dev](https://web.dev/chrome-ux-report-api/) for more example queries.

## Data pipeline

> ### The rolling average

Reviewer 2: Stacked heading

The data in the Chrome UX Report is a 28-day rolling average of aggregated metrics. This means that the data presented in the Chrome UX Report at any given time is actually data for the past 28 days aggregated together.

This is similar to how the [CrUX dataset on BigQuery](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-user-experience-report/bigquery/getting-started) aggregates monthly reports.

### Daily updates

> Data is updated daily around 04:00 UTC. There is no SLO for update times; it is run on a best-effort basis every day.

Reviewer 2: Can we not use SLO acronym? And should this be SLA anyway?

```suggestion
Data is updated daily around 04:00 UTC. There is no service level agreement for update times; it is run on a best-effort basis every day.
```

{% Aside 'caution' %}
Data will not differ within the same day, repeated calls will yield the same results.
{% endAside %}

> ## API Reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## API reference
```

There is a single endpoint for the CrUX API which accepts `POST` HTTP requests. The API returns a `record` which contains one or more `metrics` corresponding to performance data about the requested origin or page.

> ### HTTP Request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### HTTP request
```

```http
POST https://chromeuxreport.googleapis.com/v1/records:queryRecord
```

The URL uses [gRPC Transcoding](https://google.aip.dev/127) syntax.

> ### Request Body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Request body
```

    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code translate="no" dir="ltr">origin</code></td>
      <td>
        <p><strong><code class="apitype" translate="no" dir="ltr">string</code></strong></p>
        <p>The url pattern "origin" refers to a url pattern that is the origin of a website.</p><p>Examples: "https://example.com", "https://cloud.google.com"</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code translate="no" dir="ltr">url</code></td>
      <td>
        <p><strong><code class="apitype" translate="no" dir="ltr">string</code></strong></p>
        <p>The url pattern "url" refers to a url pattern that is any arbitrary url.</p><p>Examples: "https://example.com/",  "https://cloud.google.com/why-google-cloud/"</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

For example, to request the desktop largest contentful paint values for the Chrome developer documentation homepage:

```json
{
  "url": "https://developer.chrome.com/docs/",
  "formFactor": "DESKTOP",
  "metrics": [
    "largest_contentful_paint"
  ]
}
```

> ### Response Body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Response body
```

      "url": "https://developer.chrome.com/docs/"
    },
    "metrics": {
      "largest_contentful_paint": {
        "histogram": [
          {
            "start": 0,
            "end": 2500,
            "density": 0.98148451581189577
          },
          {
            "start": 2500,
            "end": 4000,
            "density": 0.010814353596591841
          },
          {
            "start": 4000,
            "density": 0.0077011305915124116
          }
        ],
        "percentiles": {
          "p75": 651
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Key {: #api-response-key }

`Key` defines all the dimensions that identify this record as unique.

```json
{
  "effectiveConnectionType": string,
  "formFactor": enum (FormFactor),

  // Union field url_pattern can be only one of the following:
  "origin": string,
  "url": string
  // End of list of possible types for union field url_pattern.
}
```

<table class="width-full with-heading-tint">
  <colgroup>
    <col width="25%">
    <col>
  </colgroup>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th colspan="2">Fields</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr></tr>
      <td><code translate="no" dir="ltr">formFactor</code></td>
      <td>

>         <p><strong><code class="apitype" translate="no" dir="ltr">enum (<a href="/web/tools/chrome-user-experience-report/api/reference/rest/v1/records/queryRecord#FormFactor">FormFactor</a>)</code></strong></p>
>         <p>The form factor is the device class that all users used to access the site for this record.</p><p>If the form factor is unspecified, then aggregated data over all form factors will be returned.</p>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        <p><strong><code class="apitype" translate="no" dir="ltr">enum (<a href="#form-factor-dimension">FormFactor</a>)</code></strong></p>
        <p>The form factor is the device class that all users used to access the site for this record (`PHONE`, `TABLET`, `DESKTOP`).</p><p>If the form factor is unspecified, then aggregated data over all form factors will be returned.</p>
```

# Optional
# This appears below the title and is an optional teaser
subhead: >
  The Chrome UX Report API gives low-latency access to aggregated Real User Metrics (RUM) from the Chrome User Experience Report.

# Required
date: 2022-06-23

# Optional
# Include an updated date when you update your post
# updated: 2020-10-16

# Optional
# How to add a new author
# https://developer.chrome.com/docs/handbook/how-to/add-an-author/
# authors:

# Optional
# How to a new tag
# https://developer.chrome.com/docs/handbook/how-to/add-a-tag/
tags:
  - web-vitals
---

The Chrome UX Report API gives low-latency access to aggregated Real User Metrics (RUM) from the Chrome User Experience Report.

## Common use case

The Chrome UX Report API allows for the querying of user experience metrics for a specific URI like "Get metrics for the `https://example.com` origin."

## Data model

This section details the structure of data in requests and responses.

### Record

A discrete piece of information about a page, or site. A record can have data that is specific for an identifier and for a specific combination of dimensions. A record can contain data for one or more metrics.

### Identifiers

> Identifiers specify what records should be looked up. In the Chrome UX Report these identifiers are webpages and websites.

Reviewer 3: "CrUX" throughout
```suggestion
Identifiers specify what records should be looked up. In CrUX these identifiers are webpages and websites.
```

### Origin

> When the identifier is an origin all data present for all pages in that origin are aggregated together. For example, say the http://www.example.com origin had pages as laid out by this sitemap:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the identifier is an origin all data present for all pages in that origin are aggregated together. For example, say the `http://www.example.com` origin had pages as laid out by this sitemap:
```

```text
http://www.example.com
http://www.example.com/foo.html
http://www.example.com/bar.html
```

This would mean that when querying the Chrome UX Report with the origin set to `http://www.example.com`, data for `http://www.example.com/`, `http://www.example.com/foo.html`, and `http://www.example.com/bar.html` would be returned, aggregated together, because those are all pages under that origin.

### URLs

> When the identifier is a url only data for that specific url will be returned. Looking again to the `http://www.example.com` origin sitemap:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the identifier is a URL, only data for that specific URL will be returned. Looking again to the `http://www.example.com` origin sitemap:
```

```text
http://www.example.com
http://www.example.com/foo.html
http://www.example.com/bar.html
```

> If the identifier is set to url with the value of `http://www.example.com/foo.html`, only data for that page will be returned.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the identifier is set to URL with the value of `http://www.example.com/foo.html`, only data for that page will be returned.
```

### Dimensions

Dimensions identify a specific group of data that a record is being aggregated against, for example a form factor of Mobile indicates that the record contains information about loads that took place on a mobile device. Each dimension will have a certain number of values, and implicitly the lack of specifying that dimension will mean that the dimension is aggregated over all values. For example, specifying no form factor indicates that record contains information about loads that took place on any form factor.

#### Form Factor

The device class that the end-user used to navigate to the page. This is a general class of device split into `PHONE`, `TABLET`, and `DESKTOP`.

#### Effective Connection Type

[Effective Connection Type](/docs/crux/methodology/#ect-dimension) is the estimated connection quality of the device when navigating to the page. This is a general class split into `offline`, `slow-2G`, `2G`, `3G` and `4G`.

### Metric

> See [metrics](/docs/crux/methodology/#metrics) for more info about the kinds of metrics included in the CrUX dataset.
> 

Reviewer 3: We can remove this since not all metrics described there exist in the API, and we list all available metrics later in this section anyway.
```suggestion
```

- `first_contentful_paint`
- `first_input_delay`

If no `formFactor` value is provided then the values will be aggregated across all form factors.

See [Using the Chrome UX Report API on web.dev](https://web.dev/chrome-ux-report-api/) for more example queries.

## Data pipeline

The CrUX dataset is processed through a pipeline to consolidate, aggregate and filter the data before becoming available via the API.

### The rolling average

The data in the Chrome UX Report is a 28-day rolling average of aggregated metrics. This means that the data presented in the Chrome UX Report at any given time is actually data for the past 28 days aggregated together.

This is similar to how the [CrUX dataset on BigQuery](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-user-experience-report/bigquery/getting-started) aggregates monthly reports.

### Daily updates

Data is updated daily around 04:00 UTC. There is no service level agreement for update times; it is run on a best-effort basis every day.

{% Aside 'caution' %}
Data will not differ within the same day after it has been updated around 04:00 UTC, repeated calls will yield the same results.
{% endAside %}

> ## API reference

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Schema
```
